---
author: "Richard"
title: "About"
description: "test the about page"
date: May 12, 2022
tags: ["about section","goals"]
---

# **At Biologize, we have three goals:**

1.  Make modern science accessible to the public
2.  Provide topical resources for students in biology
3.  Highlight some of the most fascinating and inspirational scientists

## **Make modern science accessible to the public**

Every year, billions of dollars are poured into scientific research in the U.S.
and across the world. The majority of this money comes from everyday people, not
unlike yourself, in the form of taxes and charitable donations (although there
is the odd billionaire who pours substantial amounts of their own money into
science -Thanks DVA!). But most people have no idea what happens after that. How
does money become science and how does science return any tangible investment?
We hear about 'investing in science' like it is another publicly traded business
but there aren't dependable yearly dividends when it comes to actually doing
science (trust me on that). However, biological science does have value.
Substantial value at that. We want to communicate the impact of this work. At
Biologize, we translate that science into something understandable to the
non-scientist.

## **Provide topical resources for students in biology**

When starting to learn science, two main themes come to the forefront of any
student: 1) rote memorization, and 2) the scientific method. I don't believe in
rote memorization. Repeating things over and over does not help anyone learn
something. We might remember it for a bit, just long enough to get through that
next test, but in the long term, it's not ideal. I have the memory of a hamster,
so this method of learning is a non-starter on my end. Also, google makes
memorization obsolete (there, I said it). Learning is about interacting with
material, having provoking conversations, making connections, and coming up with
new ideas. That is what we want to emphasize with this blog. As far as the
scientific method goes, critical thinking is key. Research is an intricate art.
We have to know every detail of an experiment, gently optimize the protocol, and
carefully assess the resulting data. We will provide simple explanations of some
of the most common techniques used in modern biology. Happy little mistakes
happen (sometimes not so happy). We will give our own tips for success and
common mistakes to avoid. Techniques are malleable and change based on the needs
of the experiment.

## **Highlight some of the most fascinating and inspirational scientists**

Science happens in the context of everyday society. Be that Marie Curie's 19th
and 20th century France or Aristotle's Ancient Greece. There is no perfect
society and there sure as hell ain't no perfect scientist (or writer, I might
add). Human history is riddled with mistakes, discrimination, and hidden figures
who are never recognized. This is true for science. We hope to showcase some of
the under-appreciated scientists who have made discoveries that shape our past,
present, and future. There's drama and despair; trials and tribulations.
Scientists are everyday people just trying to survive in the world. Their
stories are insightful, intriguing, and just plain fascinating.

We hope you tag along and learn a thing or two about the wonders of science and
the people who make it happen. These are exciting times in biological science.
Groundbreaking discoveries are happening all around us at a record pace, we just
have to take a peak.

Nerd up and get excited about biology, folks, because it's time to Biologize!
